vpdq/README.md, before:

# Summary

vPDQ (Video PDQ) is a video-similarity-detection algorithm, which uses the PDQ image similarity algorithm on video frames to measure the similarity of videos.
Full details of PDQ are located in the [hashing.pdf](https://github.com/facebook/ThreatExchange/blob/main/hashing/hashing.pdf) document.
It allows for matching individual frames against known bad images, as well as which segments of a video are matching.

See [CPP implementation](#cpp-implementation) for how to install and use vpdq.

## Compared to TMK+PDQF

Compared to TMK+PDQF (TMK):

| Feature                                                   | vPDQ     | TMK+PDQF |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|:--------:|:--------:|
| Uses PDQ for hashing frames                               | ✅       | ✅      |
| Optimized for identical videos (same length)              | ❌       | ✅      |
| Supports subsequence/clip matching                        | ✅       | ❌      |
| Fixed-length hash (near constant time search for matches) | ❌       | ✅      |

Both TMK and vPDQ are backed by PDQ for hashing video frames. Therefore, they both inherit PDQ's strengths and weaknesses.

TMK optimizes for identical videos (same length). vPDQ can match subsequences or clips within videos.

TMK has a fixed-length hash, which simplifies matching lookup, and can be near constant time with the help of FAISS. vPDQ produces a variable length hash, and requires a linear comparison of candidates.
* vPDQ linear search complexity is O(n*F<sub>c</sub>*F<sub>q</sub>), where n is the number of videos being compared, and F<sub>c</sub> is the average number of frames per compared video and F<sub>q</sub> is the number of frames in the source video.
  * To speed this up, an initial filtering pass can be used to reduce the candidates. The downside is it could discard matching videos, causing false-negatives.

## Description of Algorithm

### Producing a Video Hash

The algorithm for producing the video hash is:

1. Given a video, convert it into a sequence of frame images.
2. For each frame image, use the PDQ hashing algorithm to produce frame perceptual hashes.
3. Finally, assemble the collection of hashed frames to produce the video perceptual hash.

> **Note:** A subset of all frames can be hashed, such as only the frames at every 1sec interval, to reduce the number of frame
> perceptual hashes. In general, adjacent frames are very similar, so they are not very useful for finding matches.

The following diagram shows the high level data flow for hashing a video with vPDQ:

```mermaid
---
title: vPDQ Data Flow
config:
  theme: light
---
flowchart LR
video@{ shape: lean-r, label: "Video" } -->|decoded as| frames@{ shape: processes, label: "RGB Frame"}
frames --> pdq((PDQ))
pdq --> phashes@{ shape: processes, label: "Frame\nPerceptual Hash"}
phashes -->|assembled into| video_phash@{ shape: lean-r, label: "Video Perceptual Hash" }
```

#### Frame Metadata

We can annotate the frame hashes with their frame number, quality(0-100 which measures gradients/features, from least "featureful" to most "featureful") and the timestamp(sec):

**Example**: 5 minute video, 1 frame/sec

| Frame | Quality | PDQ Hash | Timestamp(sec) |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1  | 100 | face000...  | 0.000  |
| 2  | 99  | face000...  | 0.033  |
| 3  | 94  | face011...  | 0.067  |
| 4  | 97  | face111...  | 1.000  |
| ... | ...  |...  |...  |
| 29999 | 89  | 88784444... | 989.933 |
| 30000 | 92  | 88884444... | 989.967 |

For the matching algorithm, the frame numbers are not used, but they can still be useful for identifying matching segments when comparing videos.

#### (Optional) Pruning Frames for Faster Comparison and Smaller Video Hashes

Often, many frames are repeated in a video, or frames are very close to each other in PDQ distance. It is possible to reduce the number of frames in a hash by omitting subsequent frames that are within a distance D<sub>prune</sub> of the last retained frame.

Using the previous example, with D<sub>prune</sub> of 2 we might end up with:
| Frame | PDQ Hash | Distance from last retained frame| Result |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |------------- |
| 1  | face000...  | N/A | Retain |
| 2  | face000...  | 0 | Prune |
| 3  | face011...  | 2 | Prune |
| 4  | face111...  | 3 | Retain |
| 5  | face111...  | 0 | Prune |
| ... | ...  | ... | ... |

After pruning the previous example with D<sub>prune</sub> of 2, the vPDQ hash may look like:
| Frame | PDQ Hash |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| 1  | face000...  |
| 4  | face111...  |
| ... | ...  |

### Comparison (Matching) Algorithm

There are four inputs to the comparison algorithm, which determines if two videos are considered similar by vPDQ:

1. The query video’s frame PDQ hashes Q
2. The comparison video’s frame PDQ hashes C
3. The PDQ match distance D (example: 31)
4. The PDQ quality filter tolerance F (example: 50)
    - If either hash is below this quality level then they will not be compared

5. The comparison match percentage threshold P<sub>c</sub> (example: 80%)
    - How much of the comparison video must be matched to consider a match

6. The query match percentage threshold P<sub>q</sub> (example: 0%)
    - Using a higher threshold will exclude videos with “extra” frames or content. 0% means don’t exclude matches based on padding in the uploaded video.
    - Using P<sub>c</sub> = 100% and P<sub>q</sub> = 100% will attempt to find only videos with the exact same frame content

Here is the algorithm, in pseudocode:

```python
q_unique_frames  = set(Q)
c_unique_frames  = set(C)
q_unique_frames_matched_count = 0
c_unique_frames_matched_count = 0
q_unique_filtered_frames = filter(q_unique_frames, quality >= F)
c_unique_filtered_frames = filter(c_unique_frames, quality >= F)
for q_frame in q_unique_filtered_frames :
  for c_frame in c_unique_filtered_frames :
    if pdq_dist(q_frame, c_frame) <= D:
      q_unique_frames_matched_count++
      break

for c_frame in c_unique_filtered_frames :
  for q_frame in q_unique_filtered_frames :
    if pdq_dist(q_frame, c_frame) <= D:
      c_unique_frames_matched_count++
      break

q_pct_matched = q_unique_frames_matched_count * 100 / len(q_unique_filtered_frames)
c_pct_matched = c_unique_frames_matched_count * 100 / len(c_unique_filtered_frames)

is_match = c_pct_matched >= P_c and q_pct_matched >= P_q
```

> **Note**: The frame number and the timestamp is not used at all in this comparison. The frames are treated as an unordered “bag of hashes”. The frame number and timestamp are included in each feature in the reference implementation in case of future expansion.

Beyond pruning frames from candidates, it may be desirable to further prune to just sampled or key frames in candidate videos to control index size, but this may result in videos being incorrectly pruned.

#### (Optional) Pruning Candidate Videos for Faster Match Search

When the number of potential candidates is high, the n*F<sub>c</sub>*F<sub>q</sub> algorithm might be too expensive to run. One potential solution for filtering is indexing frames from candidate videos into an index like FAISS, keyed to the video to compare. Our lookup algorithm then becomes:

```python
candidate_video_ids = set()

for q_frame in Q:
  video_candidate_ids_with_frame = faiss_query(q_frame, D)
  for c_id in video_candidate_ids_with_frame:
    candidate_video_ids.add(c_id)

matching_candidates = []
for c_id in candidate_video_ids:
  C = lookup(c_id)
  is_match = vpdq_comparison(Q, C, D, P_c, P_q)
  if is_match:
    matching_candidates.add(C)

```

## CPP Implementation

The reference implementation for vpdq is written in C++. In addition, there are [Python bindings](#python-binding) to allow the use of vpdq from Python.

> **Note**: This implementation does not have Pruning Frames and Pruning Candidates.

The C++ implementation requires some external libraries to build.

 Follow the [manual installation guide](#manual-installation) below for how to build vpdq. Alternatively, a [Dockerfile](../Dockerfile.vpdq) and devcontainer config are provided for convience.

## Docker Development

Docker can be used for development, preferably using a devcontainer with VSCode.

Build the Docker image:

```sh
# ThreatExchage/
docker build -t vpdq . -f Dockerfile.vpdq
```

After building the image, you can easily connect to it using the VSCode devcontainer extension. See [the VSCode devcontainer tutorial](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers#_quick-start-open-an-existing-folder-in-a-container) for more information.

Once you are in the container proceed to [**Building**](#building).

## Manual Installation

### Dependencies

- C++14
- CMake
- pkg-config
- make
- FFmpeg and libav* libraries

### Install FFmpeg

[FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) and its [libav* libraries](https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/Using%20libav*) must be installed before building.

Install from the [FFmpeg Repository](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) or use a package manager:

Debian/Ubuntu: `sudo apt install ffmpeg`

macOS: `brew install ffmpeg`

Windows MinGW/MSYS2: `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-ffmpeg`

To check if it's installed:

```sh
$ ffmpeg
ffmpeg version 4.4.2 Copyright (c) 2000-2023 the FFmpeg developers
...
```

> **Note**: The actual version information displayed here may vary from one system to another; but if a message such as `ffmpeg: command not found` appears instead of the version information, FFmpeg is not properly installed.

### Install libav*

Some package managers will install the libav* libraries bundled with FFmpeg. But if yours does not then you will need to install them manually.

Required:

- libavdevice
- libavfilter
- libavformat
- libavcodec
- libswresample
- libswscale
- libavutil

Debian/Ubuntu:

```sh
sudo apt-get install -y libavdevice-dev libavfilter-dev libavformat-dev libavcodec-dev libswresample-dev libswscale-dev libavutil-dev
```

All dependencies should now be installed. Proceed to [**Building**](#building).

## Building

Build using the usual CMake commands:

```sh
# vpdq/cpp
# Generate CMake project
cmake -S . -B build
# Build
cmake --build build -j
```

> **Note:** The CMake files will respect your `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` option.
>
> For example, to build with optimizations pass `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` to the generator command (the first one above).
>
> To build with optimizations and debug info, pass `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo`.
>
> There is also a custom `Asan` and `Tsan` build type to compile with address/thread sanitizers (Linux only).
>
> See [CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE documentation](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.html) for more information.

This will build both the library and 3 CLI programs:

- vpdq-hash-video
- match-hashes-byline
- match-hashes-brute

The CLI programs will be found in `build/apps`.

The vpdq library will be located at `build/vpdq/libvpdqlib.a`.

Run the CLI programs with `-h` to see their usage information.

## Usage

Some Python scripts are used for testing the C++ implementation, but they do not require the Python binding to be installed. These scripts are located in the [cpp](./cpp) folder.

This demo shows how to use `vpdq_match.py` to compare one target hash with all the queried hashes in the `sample-hashes`.

The target hash must be generated with vpdq-hash-video before running.

### Brute-force matching

```sh
# vpdq/cpp
python vpdq_match.py -f sample-hashes -i output-hashes/chair-19-sd-bar.txt
```

Sample Output:

```sh
Matching Target ../ThreatExchange/vpdq/cpp/sampletest/chair-19-sd-bar.txt with ../chair-22-with-large-logo-bar.txt
10.55 Percentage Query Video match
12.59 Percentage Target Video match

Matching Target ../ThreatExchange/vpdq/cpp/sampletest/chair-19-sd-bar.txt with ../chair-22-sd-sepia-bar.txt
67.76 Percentage Query Video match
80.85 Percentage Target Video match

Matching Target ../ThreatExchange/vpdq/cpp/sampletest/chair-19-sd-bar.txt with ../chair-19-sd-bar.txt
100.00 Percentage Query Video match
100.00 Percentage Target Video match
...
```

---

#### Regression Test

An additional Python script, `regtest.py` can be used to test for changes in output during development.

It hashes the provided sample videos and compares them with known good hashes from `sample-hashes` line by line.

```sh
# vpdq/cpp
python regtest.py

Matching File pattern-sd-with-small-logo-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches

Matching File chair-20-sd-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches

Matching File doorknob-hd-no-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches

Matching File pattern-sd-with-large-logo-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches
...
Matching File chair-22-with-small-logo-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches
```

### Python Binding

A Cython binding is available to that using the C++ library for Linux and macos.

All of the dependencies from the C++ implementation are required to build the binding.

```sh
pip install vpdq
```

See [README.md in `python/`](./python/README.md) for more information.

## FAISS

[FAISS](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss) has been successfully integrated with vPDQ in the [python-threatexchange](../python-threatexchange/threatexchange/extensions/vpdq) library. See the [README](../python-threatexchange/threatexchange/extensions/vpdq/README.md) for more information.

## Contact

threatexchange@meta.com

---

This software uses libraries from the FFmpeg project under the LGPLv2.1

Commit message:

[vpdq] Use scikit-build-core build backend for Python binding (#1721)

vpdq/README.md, after:

# Summary

vPDQ (Video PDQ) is a video-similarity-detection algorithm, which uses the PDQ image similarity algorithm on video frames to measure the similarity of videos.
Full details of PDQ are located in the [hashing.pdf](https://github.com/facebook/ThreatExchange/blob/main/hashing/hashing.pdf) document.
It allows for matching individual frames against known bad images, as well as which segments of a video are matching.

See [CPP implementation](#cpp-implementation) for how to install and use vpdq.

## Compared to TMK+PDQF

Compared to TMK+PDQF (TMK):

| Feature                                                   | vPDQ     | TMK+PDQF |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|:--------:|:--------:|
| Uses PDQ for hashing frames                               | ✅       | ✅      |
| Optimized for identical videos (same length)              | ❌       | ✅      |
| Supports subsequence/clip matching                        | ✅       | ❌      |
| Fixed-length hash (near constant time search for matches) | ❌       | ✅      |

Both TMK and vPDQ are backed by PDQ for hashing video frames. Therefore, they both inherit PDQ's strengths and weaknesses.

TMK optimizes for identical videos (same length). vPDQ can match subsequences or clips within videos.

TMK has a fixed-length hash, which simplifies matching lookup, and can be near constant time with the help of FAISS. vPDQ produces a variable length hash, and requires a linear comparison of candidates.
* vPDQ linear search complexity is O(n*F<sub>c</sub>*F<sub>q</sub>), where n is the number of videos being compared, and F<sub>c</sub> is the average number of frames per compared video and F<sub>q</sub> is the number of frames in the source video.
  * To speed this up, an initial filtering pass can be used to reduce the candidates. The downside is it could discard matching videos, causing false-negatives.

## Description of Algorithm

### Producing a Video Hash

The algorithm for producing the video hash is:

1. Given a video, convert it into a sequence of frame images.
2. For each frame image, use the PDQ hashing algorithm to produce frame perceptual hashes.
3. Finally, assemble the collection of hashed frames to produce the video perceptual hash.

> **Note:** A subset of all frames can be hashed, such as only the frames at every 1sec interval, to reduce the number of frame
> perceptual hashes. In general, adjacent frames are very similar, so they are not very useful for finding matches.

The following diagram shows the high level data flow for hashing a video with vPDQ:

```mermaid
---
title: vPDQ Data Flow
config:
  theme: light
---
flowchart LR
video@{ shape: lean-r, label: "Video" } -->|decoded as| frames@{ shape: processes, label: "RGB Frame"}
frames --> pdq((PDQ))
pdq --> phashes@{ shape: processes, label: "Frame\nPerceptual Hash"}
phashes -->|assembled into| video_phash@{ shape: lean-r, label: "Video Perceptual Hash" }
```

#### Frame Metadata

We can annotate the frame hashes with their frame number, quality(0-100 which measures gradients/features, from least "featureful" to most "featureful") and the timestamp(sec):

**Example**: 5 minute video, 1 frame/sec

| Frame | Quality | PDQ Hash | Timestamp(sec) |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1  | 100 | face000...  | 0.000  |
| 2  | 99  | face000...  | 0.033  |
| 3  | 94  | face011...  | 0.067  |
| 4  | 97  | face111...  | 1.000  |
| ... | ...  |...  |...  |
| 29999 | 89  | 88784444... | 989.933 |
| 30000 | 92  | 88884444... | 989.967 |

For the matching algorithm, the frame numbers are not used, but they can still be useful for identifying matching segments when comparing videos.

#### (Optional) Pruning Frames for Faster Comparison and Smaller Video Hashes

Often, many frames are repeated in a video, or frames are very close to each other in PDQ distance. It is possible to reduce the number of frames in a hash by omitting subsequent frames that are within a distance D<sub>prune</sub> of the last retained frame.

Using the previous example, with D<sub>prune</sub> of 2 we might end up with:
| Frame | PDQ Hash | Distance from last retained frame| Result |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |------------- |
| 1  | face000...  | N/A | Retain |
| 2  | face000...  | 0 | Prune |
| 3  | face011...  | 2 | Prune |
| 4  | face111...  | 3 | Retain |
| 5  | face111...  | 0 | Prune |
| ... | ...  | ... | ... |

After pruning the previous example with D<sub>prune</sub> of 2, the vPDQ hash may look like:
| Frame | PDQ Hash |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| 1  | face000...  |
| 4  | face111...  |
| ... | ...  |

### Comparison (Matching) Algorithm

There are four inputs to the comparison algorithm, which determines if two videos are considered similar by vPDQ:

1. The query video’s frame PDQ hashes Q
2. The comparison video’s frame PDQ hashes C
3. The PDQ match distance D (example: 31)
4. The PDQ quality filter tolerance F (example: 50)
    - If either hash is below this quality level then they will not be compared

5. The comparison match percentage threshold P<sub>c</sub> (example: 80%)
    - How much of the comparison video must be matched to consider a match

6. The query match percentage threshold P<sub>q</sub> (example: 0%)
    - Using a higher threshold will exclude videos with “extra” frames or content. 0% means don’t exclude matches based on padding in the uploaded video.
    - Using P<sub>c</sub> = 100% and P<sub>q</sub> = 100% will attempt to find only videos with the exact same frame content

Here is the algorithm, in pseudocode:

```python
q_unique_frames  = set(Q)
c_unique_frames  = set(C)
q_unique_frames_matched_count = 0
c_unique_frames_matched_count = 0
q_unique_filtered_frames = filter(q_unique_frames, quality >= F)
c_unique_filtered_frames = filter(c_unique_frames, quality >= F)
for q_frame in q_unique_filtered_frames :
  for c_frame in c_unique_filtered_frames :
    if pdq_dist(q_frame, c_frame) <= D:
      q_unique_frames_matched_count++
      break

for c_frame in c_unique_filtered_frames :
  for q_frame in q_unique_filtered_frames :
    if pdq_dist(q_frame, c_frame) <= D:
      c_unique_frames_matched_count++
      break

q_pct_matched = q_unique_frames_matched_count * 100 / len(q_unique_filtered_frames)
c_pct_matched = c_unique_frames_matched_count * 100 / len(c_unique_filtered_frames)

is_match = c_pct_matched >= P_c and q_pct_matched >= P_q
```

> **Note**: The frame number and the timestamp is not used at all in this comparison. The frames are treated as an unordered “bag of hashes”. The frame number and timestamp are included in each feature in the reference implementation in case of future expansion.

Beyond pruning frames from candidates, it may be desirable to further prune to just sampled or key frames in candidate videos to control index size, but this may result in videos being incorrectly pruned.

#### (Optional) Pruning Candidate Videos for Faster Match Search

When the number of potential candidates is high, the n*F<sub>c</sub>*F<sub>q</sub> algorithm might be too expensive to run. One potential solution for filtering is indexing frames from candidate videos into an index like FAISS, keyed to the video to compare. Our lookup algorithm then becomes:

```python
candidate_video_ids = set()

for q_frame in Q:
  video_candidate_ids_with_frame = faiss_query(q_frame, D)
  for c_id in video_candidate_ids_with_frame:
    candidate_video_ids.add(c_id)

matching_candidates = []
for c_id in candidate_video_ids:
  C = lookup(c_id)
  is_match = vpdq_comparison(Q, C, D, P_c, P_q)
  if is_match:
    matching_candidates.add(C)

```

## CPP Implementation

The reference implementation for vpdq is written in C++. In addition, there are [Python bindings](#python-binding) to allow the use of vpdq from Python.

> **Note**: This implementation does not have Pruning Frames and Pruning Candidates.

The C++ implementation requires some external libraries to build.

 Follow the [manual installation guide](#manual-installation) below for how to build vpdq. Alternatively, a [Dockerfile](../Dockerfile.vpdq) and devcontainer config are provided for convience.

## Docker Development

Docker can be used for development, preferably using a devcontainer with VSCode.

Build the Docker image:

```sh
# ThreatExchage/
docker build -t vpdq . -f Dockerfile.vpdq
```

After building the image, you can easily connect to it using the VSCode devcontainer extension. See [the VSCode devcontainer tutorial](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers#_quick-start-open-an-existing-folder-in-a-container) for more information.

Once you are in the container proceed to [**Building**](#building).

## Manual Installation

### Dependencies

- C++14
- CMake
- pkg-config
- make
- FFmpeg and libav* libraries

### Install FFmpeg

[FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) and its [libav* libraries](https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/Using%20libav*) must be installed before building.

Install from the [FFmpeg Repository](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) or use a package manager:

Debian/Ubuntu: `sudo apt install ffmpeg`

macOS: `brew install ffmpeg`

Windows MinGW/MSYS2: `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-ffmpeg`

To check if it's installed:

```sh
$ ffmpeg
ffmpeg version 4.4.2 Copyright (c) 2000-2023 the FFmpeg developers
...
```

> **Note**: The actual version information displayed here may vary from one system to another; but if a message such as `ffmpeg: command not found` appears instead of the version information, FFmpeg is not properly installed.

### Install libav*

Some package managers will install the libav* libraries bundled with FFmpeg. But if yours does not then you will need to install them manually.

Required packages (Ubuntu):

- python3-dev
- pkg-config
- cmake
- ffmpeg
- libavdevice
- libavfilter
- libavformat
- libavcodec
- libswresample
- libswscale
- libavutil

Debian/Ubuntu:

```sh
sudo apt-get install -y libavdevice-dev libavfilter-dev libavformat-dev libavcodec-dev libswresample-dev libswscale-dev libavutil-dev
```

All dependencies should now be installed. Proceed to [**Building**](#building).

## Building

Build using the usual CMake commands:

```sh
# vpdq/cpp
# Generate CMake project
cmake -S . -B build
# Build
cmake --build build -j
```

> **Note:** The CMake files will respect your `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` option.
>
> For example, to build with optimizations pass `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` to the generator command (the first one above).
>
> To build with optimizations and debug info, pass `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo`.
>
> There is also a custom `Asan` and `Tsan` build type to compile with address/thread sanitizers (Linux only).
>
> See [CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE documentation](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.html) for more information.

This will build both the library and 3 CLI programs:

- vpdq-hash-video
- match-hashes-byline
- match-hashes-brute

The CLI programs will be found in `build/apps`.

The vpdq library will be located at `build/vpdq/libvpdqlib.a`.

Run the CLI programs with `-h` to see their usage information.

## Usage

Some Python scripts are used for testing the C++ implementation, but they do not require the Python binding to be installed. These scripts are located in the [cpp](./cpp) folder.

This demo shows how to use `vpdq_match.py` to compare one target hash with all the queried hashes in the `sample-hashes`.

The target hash must be generated with vpdq-hash-video before running.

### Brute-force matching

```sh
# vpdq/cpp
python vpdq_match.py -f sample-hashes -i output-hashes/chair-19-sd-bar.txt
```

Sample Output:

```sh
Matching Target ../ThreatExchange/vpdq/cpp/sampletest/chair-19-sd-bar.txt with ../chair-22-with-large-logo-bar.txt
10.55 Percentage Query Video match
12.59 Percentage Target Video match

Matching Target ../ThreatExchange/vpdq/cpp/sampletest/chair-19-sd-bar.txt with ../chair-22-sd-sepia-bar.txt
67.76 Percentage Query Video match
80.85 Percentage Target Video match

Matching Target ../ThreatExchange/vpdq/cpp/sampletest/chair-19-sd-bar.txt with ../chair-19-sd-bar.txt
100.00 Percentage Query Video match
100.00 Percentage Target Video match
...
```

---

#### Regression Test

An additional Python script, `regtest.py` can be used to test for changes in output during development.

It hashes the provided sample videos and compares them with known good hashes from `sample-hashes` line by line.

```sh
# vpdq/cpp
python regtest.py

Matching File pattern-sd-with-small-logo-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches

Matching File chair-20-sd-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches

Matching File doorknob-hd-no-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches

Matching File pattern-sd-with-large-logo-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches
...
Matching File chair-22-with-small-logo-bar.txt
100.000000 Percentage  matches
```

### Python Binding

A Python binding for vpdq is available on Linux and macos that utilizes the C++ implementation.

All of the [dependencies](#dependencies) for the C++ implementation are required to build the Python binding.

Install vpdq Python binding:

```sh
pip install vpdq
```

See [README.md in `python/`](./python/README.md) for more information.

> **Note:** Wheels are not currently distributed. But, in the future building wheels with manylinux and packaging the dynamically
> linked libav* libraries may be useful to end users to skip the build and dependency process. 

## FAISS

[FAISS](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss) has been successfully integrated with vPDQ in the [python-threatexchange](../python-threatexchange/threatexchange/extensions/vpdq) library. See the [README](../python-threatexchange/threatexchange/extensions/vpdq/README.md) for more information.

## Contact

threatexchange@meta.com

---

This software uses libraries from the FFmpeg project under the LGPLv2.1
